# ml-project     
Energy consumption is among one of the essential
topics of energy systems. Energy consumption came under the consideration after the energy crisis in 1970s. Also, It is shown that energy consumption throughout the world is rapidly increasing . Therefore, each country tries to use as less energy as possible in their country in different areas from building to farms, from industrial process to vehicles .
 it need so much effort to keep tracking of energy consumption of these types in different area. However by doing so, we can predict the amount of energy, which is consumed in different areas and try to make plans, specialized for a specific usage and area. For all energy types mentioned above, estimating the usage is useful for decision and policy makers. 
                     The amount of energy used in different areas is influenced by different factors such as water, wind, temperature. Having multiple factors, predicting the energy consumption is a complex problem. 
                     Nowadays ML models are being used in different areas because they are useful and the way ML works is like a function which best maps the input data to output. Machine learning models can produce prediction for energy consumption with high accuracy.The household appliance energy consumption prediction models based on SVM, KNN, RF, ETR, Adaboost, XGboost and lasso ridge are explored. First, we done the preprocessing of data, remove some features in the filtered data and normalize the data. Second, the grid search method is used to determine the optimal parameters in the model, and the models based on different machine learning methods are established.
                         Finally, the prediction performance of each model was evaluated and compared. The results show that among the four prediction models established by the traditional machine learning method, ExtraTreeRegressor can achieve good results in the training set and the testing set, with the best prediction performance.Lasso,Ridge, KNN, RF and SVM have similar prediction performance in the testing set, but lasso and ridge has the worst performance in the training set. The four models based on traditional machine learning are all relatively average in predicting performance. The prediction performance of the model based on ETR is much better than that of the model based on traditional machine learning, and the predicted value of ETR model is very close to the real value, it has advantages in terms of household appliance energy consumption prediction.
